# Color Changing App

This app is based on the sample [project by Digilent](https://digilent.com/reference/programmable-logic/zybo-z7/demos/pcam-5c) for using Pcam-5c. But using a custom HLS IP for color change.

## 1 Build Vitis HLS IP
* Open **Vitis Console 2024.1** commandline tool.
* go to **`color_change_HLS_app\hls_ip_source`** directory.
* generate vitis HLS by running **`run vitis_hls.py`**.
* Wait for the script to complete. Check inside the  **`color_change_HLS_app\hls_ip_repo`** for the extracted file, **color_change**, containing generated IP files.

## 2 Build Vivado System

* Open **Vivado 2024.1** 
* run **vivado_project.tcl** file by clicking **`'Tools' menu -> Run Tcl script..`** and browsing. 

### Adding Color_chage  hls IP
* If the initial block design was created without error. Add **hls_ip_repo**.
    
    * go to Menu **`Window -> Ip catlog`** and in the catlog window **`right click -> Add repository`**
* Go to *block design diagram* and **`right click -> Add IP..`**. In the search bar, search for **Color_change** and add the HLS IP.

* Reconnect wires as shown [here](reconnect_hls_ip.png).

* Right click **"Color_change_0"** and select **Make external** as shown [here](make_external.png)

* **Save Block Design** changes and Run **Generate Block Design**

### Rest of the flow

* If the block design is created without any error, proceed to **generating bit stream**.
* Export design: click `File -> Export -> Export Hardware` and then in the **"Export Hardware Platform"** window, click `next` and select **`include bitstream`** option and export the design to the default location.

## 3 Generate Vitis Components

After successfully hardware system, built expored as an XSA file, above. We are going to use Vitis Classic for this project.  

* Open **Xilinx XSCT 2024.1** console.
* Go to the **color_change_app** directory. 
* run **`source vitis_classic.tcl`** to generate both platform and application components.
* After the script run sucessfully, close the XSCT console. 
* Open **Vitis Classic 2024.1** and locate the workspace inside **`color_change_app/cl_ws`** and build and run the application on hardware. 

### Known issues:

* If you're using Windows, the path can only have 260 characters, as Vitis and Vivado tools use full paths. Make sure the repository is in a shallow path closer to `C:/`. Otherwise, you'll encounter random errors.
* The Vitis Classic workspace created by the above script might have a metadata issue, and sometimes will not show the platform component. In such cases, import the project from the workspace manually or delate whole workspace and create a platform from the XSA file generated by the Vivado project, which can be found inside `vivado_project/system.xsa`, and the application project and include `main.cc` as a source to the application, which can be found inside `./vitis_source` directory.
